welcome to synopsis recap today we are
going to tell the story of the godfather
part three
have fun and enjoy of course there are
spoilers ahead
the movie begins in 1979 michael
corleone is now approaching 60s
and feels tremendous guilt for indulging
in his ruthless ambition many years ago
although his previous conquests have
made him a very rich man the thoughts of
his children anthony and mary their
future and happiness
and his legacy are the only things
keeping him going his adopted brother
tom hagan is now dead
the corleone compound at lake tahoe is
abandoned and in disrepair
michael and kay divorced in 1959 and
michael gave her custody of their
children
michael corleone is using his enormous
wealth and power to restore his dignity
and reputation in the eyes
of the public the violent criminal
element of the corleone family has been
largely abandoned
ostracized by michael as well as the
public which no longer romanticizes the
gangster lifestyle
michael has embraced corporate america
which is now more tolerant of michael's
nihilism
he has rebuilt the corleone interests as
a legitimate enterprise
using the blood money from his gangster
years in an attempt to break with the
past
michael has created a charity the veto
corleone foundation
in memory of his father at a ceremony in
saint patrick's cathedral
presided over by archbishop gildea
michael is named a commander of the
order of saint sebastian
they who has remarried attends the
ceremony with their children
at the lavish party following the
ceremony kay and michael have an uneasy
reunion where she tells him the award
and ceremony were a shameful display
given his history of violence and greed
anthony tells his father that he is
going to drop out of law school to
pursue a career as an opera singer
haye supports his choice but michael
disagrees wishing that his son would
finish law school or join the family
business
michael eventually acquiesces to
anthony's wishes meanwhile
vincent mancini sonny corleone's
illegitimate son
shows up at the party he is embroiled in
a feud with joey's assa the corleone
family's enforcer who has been running
the corleone family's crime businesses
in new york
what remains of the old corleone
criminal empire is now under zasa's
stewardship
however the corleone's old neighborhood
in new york's lower east side is in
ruins and has become lawless
in michael's office vincent and zasa
speak about their feud
the discussion grows violent with
vincent accusing zasa of being an
out-of-control monster who mocks michael
behind his back
michael says that he is no longer
involved in mafia affairs
and that whatever bad blood exists
between vincent and joey's assa
is none of his business and must be
settled between only them
he asks the two men to make peace with
one another the two men embrace
but zasa insults vincent by calling him
a bastard
enraged vincent bites off part of zach's
ear sasa is escorted out and michael
scolds vincent for his violent ways
however impressed by vincent's loyalty
michael agrees to take his nephew under
his wing
the party concludes with a family
picture where michael asks vincent to
join the rest of the family
that night two men break into vincent's
apartment after vincent has spent the
night with a female journalist
named grace hamilton who he picked up at
the party using hamilton as bait
vinson brutally kills one in order to
frighten the other into revealing zasa
as the man who sent them
vincent then ruthlessly kills the second
man later
in an attempt to garner respectability
and wealth for the corleone family
through a legitimate enterprise
michael seeks to buy the vatican shares
in immibiliar an international real
estate holding company
of which 25 percent is controlled by the
vatican
with the help of his lawyer b.j harrison
he negotiates the transfer of 600
million dollars to the vatican bank with
archbishop gilday who has plunged the
holy see into tremendous debt through
his poor management and corrupt dealings
while in vatican city michael learns
that several influential parties oppose
the deal for many reasons
not the least of which is the extensive
criminal history that has tarnished the
corleone name
coupled with the failing health of pope
paul vi ratification of the deal
will be far more complicated than
michael had anticipated
don altabello an elderly new york mafia
chief tells michael that his old mafia
partners
members of the commission want in on the
immibiliar deal the meeting is arranged
in atlantic city and michael appeases
most of the dawns with generous payoffs
from their casino days from his own
massive fortune
however gets nothing furious he declares
that michael is his enemy
and tells everyone in the room they must
choose between him and michael
zasa storms out of the meeting don
altabello runs after him to talk him
into coming back
minutes later the doors are all sealed
and a helicopter hovers above the
conference room and sprays a barrage of
bullets through the ceiling windows
almost everyone is killed but michael
vincent and michael's long-term
bodyguard and soldier
al neary managed to escape back at his
apartment in new york as michael
considers how to respond to this hit
with vincent advocating zasa's murder
michael realizes and altabello
authorized the attack and he suffers a
diabetic stroke and is subsequently
hospitalized
during the attack in a near delirium
michael screams out the name of his
brother fredo whose murder he had
ordered some 20 years earlier
though they are cousins vincent and mary
begin a romantic relationship
unbeknownst to michael vincent with the
urging of his aunt connie who is now
acting as michael's unofficial
consigliere plots revenge against joey
zasa
during a street fair vincent and his
accomplices kill zasa's bodyguards and
vincent disguised as a mounted new york
police officer
murders assa himself michael still
hospitalized berates vincent when he
finds out but vincent insists that he
got the go-ahead for malniri and connie
michael insists that vincent end his
relationship with mary
because vincent's involvement in the
family puts mary's life in jeopardy
the family travels to sicily michael
tells vincent to pretend to defect to
don altabello to find out who he is
working with
under the pretense that michael's
disapproval of his relationship with
mary
has caused vincent to become disloyal
altabello supports the idea of vincent
switching his allegiance and introduces
him to licio le cassie the man behind
the plot to prevent michael's
acquisition of immobilier
michael visits cardinal lamberto a
well-intentioned and pious priest
to speak about the immobilier deal
lamberto convinces michael to make his
first confession in 30 years
among other sins michael confesses to
ordering the killing of his brother
fredo
after confessing michael breaks down in
tears he is told by lamberto that it is
just that he should suffer
and that although he could tell michael
to repent he knows michael will not
nevertheless he absolves michael of his
sins during sicily with k
who has arrived for anthony's operatic
debut michael also asks for her
forgiveness
as both admit that they still love each
other michael receives word that on
thomasino
his sicilian friend and ally of the
corleone family for half a century
has been killed signaling that a new
round of violence is about to begin
after the death of the old pope cardinal
lamberto is elected pope john paul the
first
which means that the immobilier deal
will likely be ratified due to his
intention to clean up the dealings of
the vatican
vincent tells michael what he has
learned from altabello le kessie is
behind the plot against the immobilier
deal
and a master assassin known as mosca the
man who killed thomasino
has been hired by altabello to kill
michael vincent wants to strike back
but michael cautions him saying that if
he goes ahead with such a plan
there will be no going back vincent
insists on revenge and michael relents
michael then makes vincent head of the
corleone family the new dawn corleone
but in exchange for such promotion
vincent agrees to put an end to his
relationship with mary once and for all
the family travels to palermo to see
anthony perform the lead in cavalieri
rusticana the renowned opera house
teatro massimo
meanwhile vincent makes plans to seek
revenge against the corleone family's
enemies
intersected with scenes from anthony's
performance are the brutal murders of
the enemies of the corleone family
heinzig is smothered to death by
vincent's men his body is hanged over
the bridge to make his death an alleged
suicide
archbishop gildea has the tea of the new
pope poisoned the pope soon drinks it
and dies
at the opera don altabello eats a dish
of poison cannoli that his goddaughter
connie serves him
he soon dies silently at the opera as
connie watches through her upper glasses
al-niri shoots archbishop gilde as he
climbs a spiral staircase
and flings the archbishop's body down
the stairs finally
thomasino's bodyguard kalo approaches
don le kessie and whispers to his ear
power wears out those who do not have it
before stabbing le kessie in the throat
with his own pair of glasses
mosca the assassin hired by don
altebello to kill michael
descends upon the opera house during
anthony's performance killing three of
vincent's men who delay his opportunity
and the opera ends before he has the
chance to kill michael with his rifle
the assassin retreats to the opera house
facade staircase
and tries to shoot michael there mary is
confronting her father about the forced
breakup with vincent when mosca fires
the shot hits michael in the shoulder
and then hits mary in the chest
she dies calling out to her father
vincent kills the assassin immediately
everybody is crying for mary as kay
cradles her bloody body in her arms
they all look to michael who is
screaming with primal pain and rage
the scene dissolves to a short montage
of michael's memories the first being a
dance with mary the second
being a dance with his deceased first
wife apollonia and the last being a
dance with kay when they were married
the film ends in an unspecified year
showing an aged and broken michael
seated in the front yard of don
tomasino's sicilian villa
he slowly puts on a pair of sunglasses
drops an orange from his hand
slumps out of his chair and collapses to
the ground he dies alone
with no one around him and this is where
the godfather saga ends
if you like the video please subscribe
leave a like
and turn on the notification thank you
for watching